# Parameter estimation via EM Algorithm with Condition Stage

Function written in `C++` for estimating the parameters of the model via
Expectation Maximization (EM Algorithm).

## Usage

``` r
EM_algo_c(
  obs_pattern_shape,
  obs_pattern_frq,
  obs_internal_count,
  categorical_levels,
  random_starts,
  max_iterations,
  rel_convergence,
  con_step_size,
  con_random_starts,
  con_max_iterations,
  con_rel_convergence,
  fast,
  trace,
  con_trace
)
```

## Arguments

- obs_pattern_shape:

  `Matrix` containing the unique patterns found in the data. Ideally
  this matrix is generated by the function
  [`get_patterns()`](get_patterns.md).

- obs_pattern_frq:

  `Vector` containing the frequencies of the patterns. Ideally it is
  generated by the the function [`get_patterns()`](get_patterns.md).

- obs_internal_count:

  `Matrix` containing the relative frequencies of each category within
  each pattern. Ideally this matrix is generated by the function
  [`get_patterns()`](get_patterns.md).

- categorical_levels:

  `Vector` containing all possible categories of the content analysis.

- random_starts:

  `Integer` for determining how often the algorithm should restart with
  randomly chosen values for the Assignment Error Matrix and the
  categorical sizes.

- max_iterations:

  `Integer` for determining the maximum number of iterations for each
  random start.

- rel_convergence:

  `Double` for determining the convergence criterion. The algorithm
  stops if the relative change is smaller than this criterion.

- con_step_size:

  `Double` for specifying the size for increasing or decreasing the
  probabilities during the condition stage of estimation. This value
  should not be less than 1e-3.

- con_random_starts:

  `Integer` for the number of random starts within the condition stage.

- con_max_iterations:

  `Integer` for the maximum number of iterations during the condition
  stage.

- con_rel_convergence:

  `Double` for determining the convergence criterion during condition
  stage. The algorithm stops if the relative change is smaller than this
  criterion.

- fast:

  `Bool` If `TRUE` a fast estimation is applied during the condition
  stage. This option ignores all parameters beginning with "con\_". If
  `FALSE` the estimation described in Berding and Pargmann (2022) is
  used. Default is `TRUE`.

- trace:

  `TRUE` for printing progress information on the console. `FALSE` if
  this information should not be printed.

- con_trace:

  `TRUE` for printing progress information on the console during
  estimations in the condition stage. `FALSE` if this information should
  not be printed.

## Value

Function returns a `list` with the estimated parameter sets for every
random start. Every parameter set contains the following components:

- log_likelihood:

  Log likelihood of the estimated solution.

- aem:

  Estimated Assignment Error Matrix (aem). The rows represent the true
  categories while the columns stand for the assigned categories. The
  cells describe the probability that a coding unit of category i is
  assigned to category j.

- categorial_sizes:

  `Vector` of estimated sizes for each category.

- convergence:

  If the algorithm converged within the iteration limit `TRUE`. `FALSE`
  in every other case.

- iteration:

  Number of iterations when the algorithm was terminated.

## References

Berding, Florian, and Pargmann, Julia (2022).Iota Reliability Concept of
the Second Generation.Measures for Content Analysis Done by Humans or
Artificial Intelligences. Berlin: Logos. https://doi.org/10.30819/5581
